Email is the first killer
app on the internet, and
you're all very very
familiar with the email.
The guy who invented is Raymond Tomlinson.
He was at BBN in Boston, and
he explains how it all came
about much better than I could.
So, why don't we watch the video here and
come back?
>> At first there wasn't much to do on
the ARPANET beyond transferring data files
among its members.
But then a new capability was added, the
first killer application that would bring
in the masses, and take the usefulness
of computer networking to a new level.
That killer app was email.
[SOUND]
>> I was actually working on a mail
program, but it was a program for
a single computer.
So that you could send messages from
yourself to another user on
the same time sharing computer.
And I had written a couple of
programs to transfer files,
and it occurred to me that since
the mailbox that I was sending
these messages to was nothing more than
a file, I could send that file across
the network instead of keeping
it within the same machine.
And so I put two programs together,
modified the code a little bit,
and the first email program was created.
>> Tomlinson did more than
just write the code for email.
In a keystroke, he gave the world a new
icon for the information age, the at sign.
>> The @ sign was the most obvious choice
because we're talking about a user who was
at some computer, and it just made sense.
>> Ironically what would become one of the
most popular applications on the internet
was a program Tomlinson
wrote on his own time.
>> It seemed like a neat idea.
Nobody was clamoring for e-mail.
Our sponsor, Department of Defense, didn't
say anything about wanting to e-mail.
My boss didn't say anything about e-mail.
In fact, nobody said anything about
e-mail cuz the term wasn't coined until
several years later.
But it just seemed like
an interesting thing to
do with a computer in the network,
and so I just did it.
>> So then electronic mail became
the completely unanticipated killer app,
as we say, for the ARPANET.
We went from remote login file transfer
electronic mail in a year flat or
two years flat.
And then it stayed that way for 20 years.
>> Initial document in this,
so I show here a bunch of RFCs
that actually improved
email in the future.
The email itself works on SMTP,
Simple Mail Transfer Protocol,
and IMAP in some cases.
The part that makes email a lot
more useful is multimedia,
multipurpose internet mail extensions,
that is, RFC 2405 to 2409.
They describe mechanisms of attaching
various content to the email.
Zip files, JPEG images, wav sounds and
different ways in which you can attach
any multimedia in the Internet.
So, some of this, if you're interested,
it may be useful for you to look at that.